Okay. Magandang hapon po sa ating lahat at advance hapon merienda sa lahat ng mga nakikinig. Tayo po'y papasok sa isa na namang biyahe ni Han Research Forum. Correct. Isa na naman po. Co-organized by WeSolve Foundation, MoveUsOne Coalition, and Open Government Partnerships. Correct. Isa na naman po. Lahat lo or third installment na of our Biyahe ni Han Research Forum, studying various topics under mobility and transportation. Ngayon po, ang tema naman po natin ay mobility and procurement. Pero bago po tayo magsimula, a few reminders po. Unang-una, kindly keep your microphones muted when someone else is speaking. Pangalawa, pwede po tayong magtanong during the moderated question and answer portion of this conference at 3.05pm. Yung first hour po ay para sa presentations nagan at sa panel responses ng ating mga magagaling na guests na kasama natin ngayong araw. And then the remaining 30 minutes of our time will be for moderated Q&A. Pero maaaring po pong i-chat ang inyong mga tanong sa chatbox kasi alam po natin na minsan nakakalimutan natin siya. So just chat it there. Kinokompile po namin siya and we will ask it later on pagdating na po ng oras para sa Q&A. At kung meron po kayong mga kasama who would like to join us and listen to, kindly feel free to forward the event details. Pero live din po tayo sa MOVUS ONE Coalition page. At magsasend po si Kat ng Facebook link sa Zoom chat para po pwede niyo po i-share doon sa mga kasama niyo. And with that, magsimula na po tayo. We are very honored. We are very honored to be joined by Ms. Vivian Swarty-Cortez. She has more than two decades of policy research, social accountability, public procurement, contract monitoring, and participatory governance experience up in her sleeves. At malaki po. Ang guidance na ibigay niya sa ating research team para mabuo po yung pag-aaral na ito. In fact, kanina po during the call, ang tawag sa kami ni Ken ay kanyang procurement mom. She is currently a consultant also for the thematic policy areas at the Open Government Partnership. Let us welcome po si Ati Vivian for her opening remarks. Thank you. Hi everyone and welcome to the Biahinihan Research Forum. So thank you for joining us and special thanks to WeSolve Foundation for organizing and inviting the Open Government Partnership to today's event. So as we know, cycling has become a very popular mode of transportation during the pandemic. In fact, several surveys conducted by the social weather stations have established that there are actually more bike owners than car owners in the country today. While nearly 200,000 individuals bike commute on major roads daily, kasama na yung asawa ko dyan, safety issues continue to hound the cycling community despite nearly 500 kilometers of bike lanes built by the government nationwide. So this brings us to today's event where WeSolve Foundation will share their research on empowering citizens to build better bike lanes through open contracting. And provide examples on how open government approaches can be used by mobility advocates, citizens and civil society to help government develop and put in place responsive policies and better mobility infrastructure. So a little bit on what OGP is. Empowering citizens to have a say in decisions that affect them is at the core of the Open Government Partnership or OGP. The spirit behind the partnership is echoed by one of its founders, former US President Obama. And he said that OGP was established to ensure that governments and institutions truly serve citizens rather than themselves. OGP provides a process for its national and local members that brings together reformers such as you to co-create and deliver commitments to make governments more transparent, accountable, inclusive and responsive. So government and civil society join a dialogue to co-create a set of open government commitments that are locked down in two to four year action plans. These commitments are closely monitored by the independent reporting mechanism that assesses the design and implementation of commitments. Now, OGP provides the platform for governments to adapt reforms like open contracting policies focused on disclosure, participation and oversight throughout the entire procurement chain. The combination of these activities helps governments save money, fight corruption and expand the number of participating businesses, particularly small and women owned businesses. So in the Philippines, the open contracting commitment in the country's 2019 to 2022 National Action Plan is an example. The commitment aimed to increase transparency and accountability by publishing public procurement data in the PhilCHEP's website. It also sought to increase citizen participation by having civil society and citizens access and use contracting data to shape policies that can enhance public services for citizens. So this is actually similar to what Ken and his team in WeSolve have been doing. And in doing so, civil society and citizens can directly help ensure that participation in the budgeting and contracting process can address key issues and priorities and ensure that public funds are spent as intended. So ultimately, OGP is a tool for reformers like you. It will only be good as the resolve of the reformers to use it to push the boundaries of openness in the face of strong vested interests. For it to work, we need political will and leadership from governments and genuine interest in collaboration with civil society. So by investing in and building trusted and safe spaces where government and civil society can create common understanding to reach shared goals, even when conversations are actually very difficult and people do not agree, is where open government comes alive. So I encourage the government, civil society reformers, and you to use the platform to connect with peers in the region and across the globe to share experiences. What works, what doesn't, and where you need help. So for instance, we at OGP are happy to facilitate peer conversations where members like the City of Buenos Aires in Argentina were able to address bike lanes and bike safety issues through their commitment. Now that the Philippines is in a co-creation year, this could probably be something that you might be interested in doing. So we at the Open Government Partnership Support Unit continue to be committed in supporting our civil society partners such as WE SOLVE in using the OGP platform for building a government that truly listens and serves the people. Maraming salamat po and welcome again to the event. Yes, salamat po Ate Vivian. The core of Ate Vivian's message is direct and very simple. Civil society, us, and our hardworking civil servants in the government, I will include Erick and later on, Kuya Patsan, will also be joining us and we will build our government to ensure that the public budget is properly spent on the right path. Because this is our budget and this is our country. Now, we will move on to our research presentation. Just a quick context, during the pandemic, we saw the need to build protected bike lanes throughout the Philippines to protect the many Filipinos, especially our healthcare workers at that time who were really cycling to work. In 2020, we also had a budget, procured and built 500 kilometers of bike lanes throughout the country. The research that we will present today is a study of this procurement process. We will call on the authors of this research to give their presentation. Kenneth Isaiah Ibasco-Amande, Riz Supreme Balgos, Cumbia, Ate Reynabel Reyes, and Lance Anthony Lagman.