Thank you so much, Haya, and thank you, Vian. It's an honor to present our study called Empowering Citizens to Build Better Bike Lanes Through Open Contracting. And before we proceed, I wanted to thank the different members of the community. Over 20 people were consultants from civil society and government, from the Department of Transportation, Department of Public Works and Highways, Department of Budget and Management, our partners from the Philippine Government Electronic Procurement System, our procurement reform advocates, and actual members of the cycling community who allowed us to improve this paper by giving additional context to our paper's findings. And allow me to start presenting the presentation. V, please show the slides. Thank you. So, our quick coverage, we studied 12 publicly available pop-up bike lane contracts worth around a billion pesos that financed the construction of 497 kilometers of bike lanes in Metro Manila, Metro Cebu, and Metro Davao that came from the Bayanihan to Recover as One Act and was implemented in 2020 and 2021. Our major findings are as follows. These bike lanes were procured at an average cost of 2.15 million pesos per kilometer. Government saved 14.7 million by having more than one bidder for a majority of the contracts. This is good news. This means there is competition in our procurement. The typical or median procurement took around 34 days from advertising to notice to proceed. Next slide, please. We also looked at different components of the procurement system starting with data completeness where we found that nine out of 12 contracts found in the DPWH website were also found in the PhilGEP's website. Around 82% of the expected documents within these contracts were available. Around 58 out of 72 sub-documents within these contracts. In terms of data quality and openness, we saw that there are accessibility issues when it came to searching these contracts in the DPWH website which did not include project titles. The keywords were unsearchable. We tried searching using keywords such as bike and bike lanes but these didn't show. But we saw through contract numbers. We also found that these contracts on the PhilGEP's website were linked to the DPWH's procurement web portal. We also saw that in these items, these items listed mostly had standard pay items and some item codes in these contracts did not match the DPWH's construction materials price database item codes. I want to say that it's hard to match one-on-one correspondence of the materials in the contract versus what is in the reference price list in the DPWH. But we still tried our best to be able to do that. Next component that we studied was in terms of bidding and competition. We said that there are actual government savings worth P14.7 million. This came from having at least one other bidder. And out of the 11 contracts with available Bids and Awards Committee resolutions, all except one had multiple bidders. So this is actually good news for us. And it's a total of 14 unique contractors actually bid on the projects. Although there is always scope for greater participation of more bidders for greater competition. Seven suppliers were awarded contracts and half of the total award value was awarded to one supplier called Philippine ChemSteel Industries Inc. In terms of prices, we also saw that when we compared the items in these contracts to other items within the database across the contracts, and also these items with external prices such as what is available in the Construction Materials Price Database, there would have been potential savings of P29 million to P214 million if procured at median prices with varying levels of confidence. I'll explain this later with an illustration by Reina and Lance on how we computed these figures. And then these potential savings are up to 25% of the value of the sub-value that we studied. The important disclaimer that DPWH clarified during our consultation with them was that these Material Price Database reference prices exclude indirect costs and profit margin for suppliers. So, this savings estimate can be reduced. And that the DPWH actually evaluates bids based on the lowest calculated responsive bid based on the total and not based on individual items. Again, later, when we discuss the technical details, I'll show you the meaning of this disclaimer. So, if it's a price... We also looked at the organization of the Philippine Government Electronic Procurement Service which actually gives us... This is the official portal of the government for posting all procurement notices, not just in bike lane procurement, but all other types of procurement. We saw in our review of the PhilGEPS organization that PhilGEPS is understaffed and under-resourced given its critical task and role of transparency in procurement. In 2021, PhilGEPS had and served over 4,000 buyers and 250,000 suppliers and had procurement posts worth up to 2 trillion pesos and awards worth 1.3 trillion pesos. But PhilGEPS as an institution has staff of only 28. And these 28 staff are not career staff, meaning they are not permanent plantelia positions. And they have high staff turnover and loss of capacity and institutional knowledge. There's a hiring constraint in PhilGEPS because there's a 1978 Presidential Letter of Instruction ordering that the procurement service under which PhilGEPS is a part should not have permanent staff. So this is why we need to work together to strengthen PhilGEPS as an organization. We also looked at elements of trust. And we found that open contracting can be effective when it is proactive, intentional, and accessible from planning to quality assessment. And Riz will show later some of the studies on open contracting and what our procurement reformers said about the elements of trust for a better public procurement. We have three major policy recommendations. We will go through it one by one. The first is to enhance transparency, participation, and accountability measures, to build a procurement integrity movement, second. And third, to co-create stronger and more inclusive open contracting commitment for the next Open Government Partnership National Action Plan. Let's go to the first policy recommendation. In order to improve governance and prevent corruption, as stated in many studies, there are three elements to this. Transparency, opening up information, participation, and accountability. The responsibility to improve procurement and delivery of bicycle lanes. In terms of transparency, it will be important to work with the cycling community and the interagency technical working group on active transport to open up contracting data with model data disclosures, as shown later by Reina and Lance. The DOTR can also publish templates with documents and contracts for these protected bike lanes. There are also other technical items that will be mentioned related to ability to compare different items within these contracts. Second, participation. Civil society can participate in high-impact parts of the procurement cycle by preparing a sample engagement strategy, and this can be done for the new active transport budgets that are being implemented this year. P2B in 2022 and P705M in 2023. So hopefully these recommendations can influence that next batch of bike lane procurement. In terms of accountability, procurement advocates propose an effective method of accountability called a bookend approach. CSOs can comment on the new bike lane design standards and be involved in the preparation of the annual procurement plans and the pre-procurement conferences. And we can encourage the participation of more bidders for future bike lane contracts through targeted information campaigns so that we can expand the competition for these new bike lane contracts. And for the terms of references of these bike lane contracts to be expanded and broadened given the savings that we were able to calculate because of these item prices. Next slide. Second, to build a procurement integrity movement, we engage civil society through building this procurement integrity movement. The PhilGEPs can promote detailed disclosures of data with key civil society partners and procuring entities and organize periodic peer learning activities. Next slide. Ito pong procurement integrity secretariat po can be co-chaired by members of civil society, government, academe, and business. And this secretariat can fulfill major roles in developing our open contracting success cases. Next slide. And finally, to co-create a stronger and more inclusive open contracting commitment for the next national action plan among PhilGEPs, the procurement service, the government procurement policy board, and other civil society organizations. So we can open up contracting data in active transport and other sectors. We can work with the government procurement policy board to craft a policy for civil society engagement using the bookend approaches and work with the interagency technical working group on active transport to create an open contracting commitment to broaden the number of suppliers for protected bike lanes and implement these transparency participation and accountability mechanisms that we push. Next slide. And to create a safe and empowering environment for the emergence of young procurement leaders through targeted financial, technical, community, and political support and to learn from experiences of similar programs in supporting young leaders. In essence, this is where the actual executive summary ends. The group has learned a lot in opening up information on bike lanes but we can do a lot in consultation with one another. Again, this presentation is not to, it cannot be used to conclude fraud or corruption because we're looking at very limited procurement documents. But what we're trying to do is we're trying to shape future procurement cycles so that they can be more responsive to the needs of our community. I'll stop here and have Rina present next on the technical details.