You can share the next slides. Starting from research question one. And yeah, I will, yes, it's my pleasure po to share with you our findings for our first research question where we ask how might we show the value of field jobs data to ordinary citizens to empower them to claim better procurement outcomes and better value for their taxpayer money. And as mentioned earlier, we look at different components of the procurement system, including the availability of documents and information, value, duration, price, competition and bidding, and then the quality of procurement implementation. So let's start with availability. As mentioned earlier by Ken, we were able to collect procurement documents for 12 bike lane contracts, 10 from Metro Manila, one for Metro Cebu and one for Metro Davao. And we found key procurement documents for these, including the contract agreement, the notice of award, notice to proceed, the bids and awards committee resolutions, and these other documents. And we were able to then encode the data from these to do our analysis. As mentioned earlier, since the contracts are tagged by contract number, they were not found using these keywords, bike, bicycle, bicycle lane. Actually, only one out of the 12 contracts was returned, but the rest were found using the contract numbers. So encoding the data from these documents, we were able to look at the value of the contracts and found the total award value of around 1.071 billion pesos that build 497 kilometers of bike lanes, giving us the average cost per kilometer of 2.15 million pesos for all the contracts. We can also compare that for the different areas. So at face value, Metro Cebu has the lowest average cost per kilometer at around 1.09 million pesos compared to the average, almost. It's less than half. And for Metro Davao, it's higher than average. So we found it's 2.66 million pesos per kilometer. But noting also that these contracts have different bike lane lengths and classifications, so we may not compare the cost directly. Next, we also look at the awards distribution of award values for the different contracts. And as mentioned earlier, there was one supplier, Philippine Chemical Industries, Inc., which won six out of the 12 contracts and got more than half of the total award value. In terms of the distribution of award values, five out of 12 contracts are worth 125 million pesos and above, as shown here in this chart. Next, we also look at the duration or how long it took for the different processes. So as mentioned earlier, we found a median of 29 days from advertisement to notice of award, and then we also traced that to contract and to notice to proceed, and found that the average median number of days from advertisement to notice to proceed is 34 days. For looking at the different contracts, we found that the Metro Davao contract took the longest, almost double the median at 61 days from advertisement to notice to proceed. Next, we also looked at the prices for each individual item. We can do an internal price comparison where we compare the cost of the items for different contracts within our dataset. At the same time, we also did an external price analysis using a reference price list that we'll go to later. For the internal price comparison, we estimated the government savings if all items were procured at the median internal price. This turned out to be around 29.8 million pesos. To illustrate how we got this figure, we're showing some examples. In this first example, we have the Reflectorized Collapsible Rubber Bollards, which appeared in different contracts, and the median price is 3,514 pesos for one unit. We see here that in some contracts, the price is higher, so we can take the difference with the median price. For example, the next highest price is 4,657 pesos. Subtract the median price, and we get the possible savings for one unit. Then we multiply it by the number of units or number of pieces that was procured to get the possible savings for the total number of units. Then we add them all up, and here we get around 2.4 million pesos as possible savings for rubber bollards if procured at the median price. Another example is for the Reflectorized Thermoplastic Pavement Markings. Again, we get the median price, in this case 1,719 pesos per unit, and then we get the higher prices and get the difference. Now we can get the total possible savings, which turned out to be around 13.8 million pesos. This is made possible because there is a standard pay item schema that was followed, and the item code for these items were included in the contract. We can then compare the prices for different contracts and then estimate these savings. For the external price analysis, we used the Construction Materials Price Data of DPWH to get a reference price for items that were procured. But as mentioned earlier, the CMTD reference used a different code schema, so we cannot match them directly. What we did was to use keyword matching from the item descriptions, and we were able to match 11 products with varying levels of confidence. For these, we estimated total savings of 214 million pesos. To illustrate that, we have an example, particularly for steel bars. We have the CMTD reference price of 38 pesos per kilo, and we can compare that to the prices that we found in the contracts. These were procured at 93 pesos and 100 pesos per kilogram, and taking the difference with the reference price, we get a total possible savings of 8.4 million pesos. But again, noting, as mentioned earlier, the caveat that the CMTD reference price does not include indirect costs and labor and profit margin of suppliers, so that could account for some of the difference seen here. Next, we also look at the competition and bidding. As mentioned earlier, out of 11 contracts with available back resolutions, we found that all except one had multiple bidders. Taking the total award amount, comparing it with the approved budget of contract, we actually can also estimate the savings of the government and found it to be 30.2 million pesos or 3% of the total approved budget of all these contracts. And then next, we also look at those contracts with multiple bidders. In the chart below, we find that we can estimate the savings by looking at what the award amount would be if there was no competition for the highest calculated bid. So, if there were no competition, the total amount for these contracts would be 943 million, but the actual amount because we get the lowest calculated bid is 928.6 million. So, the difference is 14.7 million, which is our estimated savings from having more than one bidder or having good competition for these contracts. For the next part on quality of procurement implementation, we'll pass it on to Doris.