Hello! Hello! Hello! Thank you! Okay, hello, attention na. So, tutuloy ko lang po ang tinugustuhan pa namin sa kumpanya sa Community, sa Dating House. I would also like to emphasize muna yung importance ng open contracting. Bakit masyadong mahalaga? Open contracting will help us make our government services more effective, make our bike lanes better because it will let us see kung saan at paano ginastos yung budgets na napanalan natin para sa active transportation. So, for the quality of our procurement implementation, the cycling community in the Philippines is very active in monitoring the availability and quality of constructed bike lanes. So, kung nakikita niyo po siya, search niya lang sa Facebook, Twitter, ganyan. Marami pong mga cyclists from the Philippines na papakita nila sa sayo yung itsura ng bike lanes na ginadaala nila. Yung OpenStreetMap ay isang open database na all-overware siya actually. Pwede kang mag-input ng data. So, community effort siya at nakakolor code siya by type of cycle. So, pakita niyo po namin sa next slide. Metro Manila for example, makikita natin na maraming cycle paths dito, iba-iba pong ure at iba-iba pong sizes. So, you'll see here na mayroon po tayong national cycleways and regional cycleways all across Metro Manila and that's reflected in the procurement that we saw earlier from the Queen. There are also cycle paths in Metro Cebu. Dito po makikita nga na most ng colors d'yan ay local cycleways. So, indigo is yung color nila and honti lang yung regional cycleways. Makikita niyo po rin na yung bulk ng cycle paths na narereport ay ayon din po sa population of cyclists in that area. So, kung nasaan po sila, nandun po yung maraming nagmamap ng cycle paths. Next po, here po in Metro Davao, ganun din po medyo kaunti lang yung namamap at nasa specific areas lang po kasi nandun din yung abundant number of cyclists. Next po, so we studied, sorry, community audit po via maps, photos, and videos na like I mentioned earlier, makikita niyo po sa social media groups and pages and even individual accounts of cyclists. Next. So, this is an example from Sir Lawrence. This is in Agahang, BIR, ganun lang. Next. This is an example also in Metro Cebu early in 2021, Bollard protected siya and in Metro Davao, I'm sorry, sige po. Next. In Metro Davao, although painted siya, respected siya daman by the motorists there. Next. Ayan. So, yun po, hindi lahat ng bike lanes maganda. Yung iba nagiging ganyan na ginsura, medyo fallen to disrepair kasi mismo yung road na yan, puso pininpo akan siya for the bike. Next. Ayan. So, we asked, what are examples of procurement initiatives in the past that have shown the value of civil society engagement in the procurement process? So, we looked at specifically not only general procurement but also specifically procurement for bike lanes. Next. Ayan. So, we reviewed a lot of literature that assessed the quality of built bike lanes, engaging procurement for bike infrastructure, and advocating for funding in active transportation. Next. So, these are the cases. You will see it in our paper, medyo marami shakta. We were building on previous work for reviewing open contracting. Next. Ayan. So, key lessons from the bike lane procurement studies that we looked at. First, safe spaces for proactive community engagement must be established in the procurement process. So, Ken described earlier a bookend approach, which is part of our policy recommendations, kasi having those safe spaces will allow us to not be like afterthoughts in the procurement process but really be involved. Next. Robust mandates and leadership by NRT elements for a successful open procurement. We studied specifically in Mexico about a bike share system that they first planned pre-pandemic and then they replanned it when the pandemic happened because the mayor there was very determined to ensure that the process was open, to ensure that there were a lot of bidders, and to ensure strong civil society participation. Next. Comparative knowledge by civil servants, contractors and advocates craft and iterate the emerging language for technical requirements of bike lanes for procurement and to ensure strong and successful bids. The difficulty is here in the Philippines, magsisimula pa lang yung active transport procurement natin so we need to build that language or the technical language together para masigurado natin na the bids that come in and the bids that win are fit for the bike lanes that we use. Next. Ayan. Open procurement yields competition, user-centric, infra and depth value for money. If we see it, if we can monitor that data, panami mga kapasok na bidders, it will encourage that competition. In Mexico, they were able to save 56% of their budget because they did open procurement for their bike share system. Next. Replicability of successful open contracting approaches ensures adoption in city and neighborhood. Also in that Mexico case, they put off their entire process online. So makikita siya ng kahit kasino at madali lang siya ireplicate ng other projects kahit na hindi bike lanes. And then, consistent data collection and quality assurance of bike lanes. Consistent data collection and quality assures us na bike lanes are being used at takaas yung ridership. So pag maganda yung bike lane, darating yung bikers, gagamitin siya ng gagamitin. So to make sure that we get there, we have to ensure that the steps towards usage and monitoring are built on strong procurement and strong implementation of the bike lanes that we want to see. Ayan po. So for the last question, I'm passing it back to Ken. Thank you so much, Riz. So for our third and last question, we wanted to ask what resources, partnerships, and strategic approaches are needed to implement the proposed improvements in these data disclosures? Next slide, please. May perception po kasi that civil society participation in procurement has declined over the years. So data from PhilDEP say there are only 155 registered CSOs in the system as of 2022, and very few CSOs use the system for monitoring. So the question now becomes, what are the barriers for engagement? Next slide. May apat pong nakitang barriers. So una, lack of resources, lack of information, and steep technical learning curve. The lack of government demand to convene civil society to participate in the procurement cycle in a more comprehensive way. And even the lack of resources from government's end to engage in this procurement partnership. Now that we know these barriers, how do we encourage participation? I think there are different elements of trust that were mentioned in our community listening exercises. First is a proactive invitation for CSOs to participate in the larger procurement cycle. Dahil kung mag-observe lang sa bids, this is already too late. The second is transparency and uncompromised consistency. Dapat clear yung criteria ng evaluation, selection, and rejection of bidders. Third is a guarantee of a positive experience. They should have the ability to raise their hands. Fourth, proper representation by the public and observers. Fifth is predictability of processes. And the sixth and most important is the presence of safe spaces. Where there's an environment where it's safe to raise these concerns. And there's no fear of reprisal. Here's a sample engagement strategy. A strategic approach must manifest the government's demand for the presence of different organizations. This is done at the level of procuring entity which can then be ably assisted by PhilGEPS and the BBM Procurement Service and JPPB. And magbibigay na lang po ako ng example ng engagement strategy para pong bilis. Next slide po. Naniniwala po yung PhilGEPS na engagement is successful if there's an increase in CSO registration, PhilGEPS is being used by CSOs, and there are evidence-based policy recommendations. And these larger procurement outcomes are better prices, better quality and delivery, and better value for taxpayer money. Next slide po. Halimbawa po ng engagement strategy will be DOTR and DPWH can organize a consultation meeting where you structure an engagement with different partners in the procurement cycle and how to provide better disclosures. So magkakaroon ng invite with CSOs, international development partners, and PhilGEPS through the interagency technical working group. And DOTR can maybe share its initial 2022 and 2023 plans of procurement and agree on avenues and connect interested parties with development partners to build these accountability ecosystems including funding for these different initiatives to strengthen these trusts. So of these different priority statements, magpipili lang po ako ng isa. Halimbawa po, sa budget engagement, we will work together with the cycling community and House and Senate champions to advocate for a higher budget next year, given that 29% of Filipino households now cycle for essential tasks and recreation. A second priority statement might be something like price monitoring. We will work with the group in setting up accessible price dashboards that correctly compare internal government contract prices and external market prices. May iba pa po na binimensyon namin sa paper. There are different model data disclosures as well. At the short term, and this can be done almost immediately, in fact we are publishing by the end of this presentation this open data set na may contract level statistical table, item level statistical table, bidder level statistical table, and there are medium term and long term data that we can also release. Next slide please. Ipapakita po natin dito yung, eto po yung example ng quality disclosure. Kung pwede niyo pong iscan using your QR code, or ipapakita po natin dito sa link dito sa Zoom description at sa Facebook, yung bit.ly procurement data set or bike lanes, and you can also access our full paper and all our open data sets via our WeSolve landing page. Next slide. bit.ly slash betterbikelanes. Alright. Next slide please. With that, that's where we conclude our presentation, our research presentation. Again, we have many opportunities for engagement and we think this is a great forum where we can collaborate with one another to engage in better procurement outcomes for our community with government, civil society, and business working together. Maraming salamat po and we thank all of the people who made this research possible. Thank you. Thank you Ken, Kambala, Karina, and Lance. My thanks to all of you for joining us.