Sige po. For our third panel response po, kasama rin po natin ngayon si... Hello! Hello po! This is Director Jen Entredi Chocaong from PSPBA. I was instructed by Attorney Dennis. Sige po, sige po. To join this conference. Yes, hi! Thank you po. I can and the move is one. Introduce ko lang po quickly. Hello, I'm so sorry may... Sige. Opo, tapos tawagin po namin kayo for the response. Nanito rin po ngayon ng ating Procurement Policy Board. So represented by... Pasahin ko po ulit. Ma'am Jen Marie, Attorney Jen Marie Entredi Chocaong from our Department of Budget and Management. Isa po si Attorney Dennis Santiago po na nirepresent po ni Attorney Chocaong. Isa po talaga sa mga tinitingala ng civil society advocates natin at civil servants when it comes to procurement reforms. Kasama po siya sa team na nagpasa ng procurement law. At we are honored po to also be joined by Attorney Jen Marista. Po ba ang pag-pronounce ko po ng pangalan niyo to give the speech. Yes, hi! Sorry my signal is breaking. So hindi ko maturn on yung video kasi baka lalong mawala yung signal. I was actually in a meeting. I'm actually in a meeting right now at PBM. I'm with Attorney Dennis but I have to step out of the room kasi siya yung boss. So kailangan ako yung mag-join dito sa conference natin right now kasi medyo yung binidiscussed inside is needed there. So can you hear me? Nakon, nag-break up na. Hello? Yes po, we can hear you po. We will off our camera po so it's easier for your bandwidth. Yes, hi! I would just like to comment doon sa what are the procurement reforms that we are now doing at PSDBM. So yung kanina yung nadiscussed, PhilGEPS is part of PSDBM, it is under PSDBM. So siguro I would like to speak on behalf of PSDBM regarding what are we doing for PhilGEPS and what are we doing for our processes improvements in PSDBM now. So you may know na our current Executive Director now is Attorney Dennis Santiago and kami, his directors right now are also with him. So basically all of us are all new in PSDBM and we are with him in implementing his 12-point reform agenda in PSDBM. So yeah that's one of the challenges. Hello? Yes po, we can hear you po ma'am. Continue po. Nagcut po kayo last one minute pero narinig naman po namin yung first parts. Hello? Yes po ma'am, we can hear you po. Okay sorry talagang nakuputol, nag-break up so bibilisan po nila. So right now yung e-bidding phase of the PhilGEPS, we have pilot agencies but for this year there are additional agencies for the pilot agencies. They are now termed as pioneer agencies and we intend to implement the e-bidding talaga for these pioneer agencies. Actually one of the pioneer agencies is PSDBM itself so for all of, well not all but we are targeting most of our CSP procurement activities to implement this e-bidding for this year. As you know, PSDBM is mandated to do the procurement of common use office supplies and equipment for all government agencies. So itong mga bulk procurement na ginagawa namin, we intend to implement e-bidding for most of the CSP procurement activities this year. And then yung for transportation projects kasi yung mga motor vehicles, these were once included as CSP items sa PSDBM. But of course not the infrastructure part but the motor vehicles were once part of the CSP list but they were delisted. For this year because of the substantial amount of the motor vehicles being done by government agencies, we intend to include it again or reinstate it in the list, in the CSP list. But this will require the approval of the Government Procurement Policy Board. So once we have included the motor vehicles in the list of CSP items, we intend to have this beta open. So doon siguro papasok yung partnership natin with civil society groups and with other stakeholders. Another thing is to strengthen the enforcement of the mandate of PSDBM meaning yung maenforce natin all government agencies are buying their CSP requirements from PSDBM. We have sought the support of our new COA chairman to reissue a memorandum circular for all their auditors to include the compliance of government agencies in procuring CSP items from PSDBM. Kasi it appears na medyo hindi lahat yung government agencies are procuring from us for CSP requirements. So the list goes on. There are a lot of process improvements. We are seeking help from our development partners also to help us para mas streamline yung process in PSDBM knowing that of course we're doing well procurement and we are saving a lot for the government. If all of the CSP items are pushed to PSDBM. So yun lang siguro, kasi baka mag-break up ulit sa ating Sena. Thank you! Salamat po Director Jen kahit na nagka-cut yung inyong signal. Thank you so much for joining us and for representing our procurement service in DBM for your commitment in ensuring na maayos din talagang nasuspend yung public budget natin. Thank you po Atty. Jen. Ayun, nag-face reveal si Atty. Jen. Hello po maraming salamat po. Thank you Director Jen. Yung sunod po natin na magbibigay po ng kanyang panel response ay si Prof. Regine Tejada. Isa po siyang graduate ng Move us On Coalition's Young Mobility Leaders Program. Ang tawag po talaga namin sa kanya sa coalition ay Prof. Regine. Kasi siya rin po ay Assistant Prof. sa Industrial Engineering Department ng Diliman at lagi rin po nagbibisikleta sa kanyang workplace. Ayan, hi Prof! Hello everyone! Ayan, so thank you for inviting me here. May key na question lang diba na how might these procurement data disclosures and policy recommendations impact me as a researcher and cyclist. So these disclosures actually help us researchers na magkaroon ng overview of the problem within the Philippine procurement process. So the data specifically, the data on contracts can be used to determine yung mga bottleneck in the procurement process. However, syempre, as researchers, we just need more information din on the standard procurement process flow and the ideal lead time for each process. So I think this is also for accountability purposes also for the stakeholders ng procurement process. And the data on the items, tinignan ko kasi yung Excel file, and the data on items can also be used to determine the actual materials used and which materials cost the most. So this can lead us to look for cheaper alternatives for these materials. Other future areas of study include determining ng further root causes, ng mentioned problems in the paper like bakit may incompleteness of data from the PhilJEP's website and DPWH website, why the keywords are unsearchable in the DPWH procurement website, and why half of the total award value awarded to only one supplier. So I may have missed it, pero I think better din if we have that data din. And another future area of study is to document the processes of PhilJEPs so that we can really determine if there are processes na can be eliminated or streamlined, at kung may processes ba na can be done by automation to reduce the need for manual processing. Then we can also study and determine the optimal number of staff for PhilJEPs para their workload can be balanced. Then isa pang potential project na naisip ko can be the improvement of the information system of the DPWH procurement website portal that can address the problem on keywords not being searchable. Or upload scan files with corresponding rich text file. Yun yung ginagawa namin before sa dati kong work. So the links in the information system should also be ensured na they are all working, and yung database for the item codes for the DPWH construction materials prize should also be connected to other platforms. So we can use the concepts in information systems para connected yung mga information natin. And as a cyclist who is now aware that these are the costs for the procurement of bike lanes, syempre we want to make the most out of the allocated budget. So thank you for that information. So I agree that the procurement process should be transparent and the cycling community should also be consulted about the technical specifications of the bike lanes and other bike facilities. That's it. Thank you. Salamat, salamat Prof. Si Prof po actually ay may meeting ng alas tres pero nagstay po siya to deliver her message also kasi again as a cyclist, sobrang importante po sa kanyang malaman din talaga kung paano po procure yung bike lanes at paano po may improve yung procurement process. At paano po makikinahok ang mga as a cyclist like her para po mas mapambuti ang proseso. Ngayon naman po, second to the last panel response natin na isaring as a cyclist. So mga salataran ko sa Tina Vitalia, isang bike commuter at lead organizer ng Make It Safer movement na nagsimula 6 weeks ago pa lang. Pero po malaki na ang naambag dahil sa muntikang pagtanggal ng bike lanes sa Ayala Avenue. Let's go Tina! Thank you so much Haya. Fitting na nasunod ako kay Prof. Regine kasi nagkita kami sa DGC Capitolio Bridge, tos na-recognize niya ako. Nag-pause. So hello po. Good afternoon everyone. Thank you so much for inviting us to. These are very important insights and the Make It Safer movement is grateful to learn from the community. So ako po si Tina Vitalia, bahagi ng Make It Safer movement, originally Make It Safer Makati. So we came together just a little than 2 months ago to uphold the safety of Ayala Avenue for cyclists by retaining the protected bike lanes. It was supposed to be converted into sharrows but we recognized that this is not enough. So in just a matter of days, we mobilized over 300 people with the formal support of 60 plus organizations and over 400 individuals for a unity statement. Natutunan natin na unang una, bawat buhay ay mahalaga at ikalawa, ang hindi pinaglalaban, naglalaho. So we have been working in our capacity as ordinary citizens, enlightened by the diversity of perspectives from a mix of technical experts, designers, and even a great variety of genders. So thanks to community power, we successfully fought for the retention of those bollards. And I'm happy to report that we all feel so much safer. I even have some friends na hindi talaga cyclist, as in paminsan-minsan lang lumalabas ng Makati. The next thing niya one day, yung Ayala Avenue, and she told me that she's very grateful to ordinary people like us for doing what we have done. However, those bollards are still temporary. And it's taking a lot to have real estate managers and private developers to truly see the value of good active transport in front of business. However, we're glad that key government agencies such as DOTR and DPWH are recognizing these. But something that truly frustrates us, no, is the lack of transparency, minsan, and even coordination. And also limited engagement strategies, opportunities where people like us who are not always familiar with policy and budget processes to participate in design and delivery of public infrastructure. So I just have three insights, drawing from the main recommendations and insights that were presented earlier. First is, you're right, informally, active transport users really document their experiences. There's a lot of rich data from geographic data, visual, photo, video, written, accounts, stories, and even quantitative data from our different trips. And this should be very useful in supporting the implementation, monitoring, and improvement of our programs for protected bike lanes. Second, the barrier is real though, pun intended barrier. Maraming nagbabike at mahilig dito magbike, gustong matuto. Pero hindi lahat marunong makilahok sa pag-improve po ng ating mga programa para sa mga mamamayan. And we definitely can't just expect people to participate without proper capacity and knowledge to scrutinize procurement processes. So we're grateful to organizations that teach us how and capacitate more young leaders to do so. But on the bright side, civil society movements such as ours, we aim to empower more ordinary people to be advocates in their own ways. And we want to encourage people to participate and to engage. Sobrang dami pong energy ng cycling community. Nagugulat ako bakit araw-araw parang gumagalaw, lumalabas, pero parang hindi po napapagod. And so, coming together in spaces like this, we want to harness that energy, that excitement, and to support our government officials who are working to advocate for this. At the end of the day, we want to move with a value for safe, inclusive, and humane transportation para po maging mas makatao, maganda, at maligaya ang pamumuhay sa ating mga pamayanan. Salamat po. Thank you. Thank you. As a cyclist, si Madam Tina, na again, ang aking takeaway ay yung first few paragraphs niya, ang di paglalaban, naglalaho. Period. Okay, so I guess, parang afternoon, okay, guess ko na yung entire message. Check, ah. Salamat, salamat Madam Tina, at sa mismo ating ating active transport movement. Nagitan naman po natin, Kuya Patz-san, Director Eric, and the rest of our government officials, very supportive po ang civil society in making sure, as in Eric, in making sure that these kinds of things are talaga pong katulong niyo kami. Meron po tayong last po magbigay sana ng panel response, pero wala po siya dito. Pero nagbigay po siya, she took time na talaga pong mag-craft ng message. Babasahin ko lang po naman beles and then we can proceed to our question and answer dahil medyo overtime na rin po tayo. So, ito po ay galing sa ating former Director Rosa Clemente ng Philippine Government Electronic Procurement System of PhilGEPS. Thank you to the Open Government Partnership and to the Wisell Foundation for inviting me in this forum and for the research paper on empowering citizens to build better bike lanes. Unfortunately, I will not be able to attend the event. The paper was developed in order to fulfill the Open Government Partnership requirements for the OGP commitment as well as provide evidence-based policy recommendations to the procurement policy makers. So, congratulations po sa ating researchers. PhilGEPS is the single central portal per Section 8 of the RA-9184 for my recommendation based on what was included in the paper, based on the work that I have turned over. So, PhilGEPS is currently under pilot implementation with agencies and will continue to provide the facility for agencies to input procurement information. Although agencies publish their own data on their own sites, Facebook pages, civil society organizations, we'll still be able to collect data in one time through PhilGEPS. Although the procurement information under the bike lanes contract came from different organizations, it is evident that some data available can be consolidated and are useful in conducting evidence-based policy recommendations. Yung pangalawa po, improve transparency of disclosure on PhilGEPS data by promoting PhilGEPS and accessing the data and using the data for improving procurement such as using median price for purchasing as evidence in the data study provided. Daming data noon in one bullet point kasi very important po talaga yung data. Yung pangatla po, sabi ni Director Rosa, MPhilGEPS should also be supported in order to maintain the quality of the information to include contracting data and thus, mas bestrengthened in terms of organization. At yung huli po, MPhilGEPS has a facility for contractors and auditors and thus should be fully utilized. Some of the recommendations implementation have yet to be confirmed with the PhilGEPS OIC since I am already separated from PhilGEPS. Through the evidence-based policy recommendations, aside from making the process transparent, procurement organizations and their leaders will be able to unearth solutions that will help them improve the procurement process. With the number of bike lanes increasing, this paper shows us that there is more support given than before. By providing these research papers, we can assure that more procurement champions will support the improvement of bike lanes availability for our country by improving transparency especially on contracting data. Thank you. Maraming salamat po kay Director Rosa Clemente for sending this over and for working hard na talaga pong mag-send ng mensahe kahit hindi po siya nakadala.