Question would be what advice can you give to a college student or a graduate student who wants to pursue a career as a data engineer? How should he she prepare in order to have the adequate skillsets that would enable an easy transition from the academic to the industry? And can data bricks be part of that preparation? Thank you. So, I just want to repeat the question that we got. I think the question was from the University of the Philippines, right? Is what I heard. And I think the question is around what advice would we give to students, right? Entering into kind of the space and then number two, what support can Databricks provide, right? Is that correct? Ah yes, how could Databricks be part of the preparation if someone... I can take the second one. You want to cover all of them first? What would you advise me to someone studying at university today but entering into the state NAL, what advice would you be giving them if that's the journey they want to go on? So, thanks for the question. I think it's a good but very tricky question also. I feel like there's so many online resources that you can look up already. YouTube, I know there's a database academy and there's so much documentation you can read up. I think the very tricky part is it's very hard, especially for data engineering. It's hard to learn data engineering when you're not working with actual data. I know there are a lot of data sets on the internet that you can use and play around with but without an actual business case that really provides business value that's really driving the urgency. Honestly, for me, it's never where I just start a side project and then learn from it. I've always learned best because there's some kind of business value that I'm trying to work for, trying to generate. Almost always, I've gotten that experience in the context of working on a project or a company. Maybe one piece of advice I would give is if you could look for internships that would expose you to that kind of environment, I think would be one of the most helpful ways to learn. Obviously, you spending the time yourself to study online resources would definitely give you an edge to get those internship opportunities or job opportunities even right out of graduating. Just to add, we're in a time actually that you can learn anything. There are a lot of resources online that you can take note of. But we're also in a time that you can be distracted by a lot of things. It all comes down to, that's the way I see it. When I ask people, when I interview restaurants, I always check on, number one, attitude. What's the work ethic? There has to be a drive to learn. There's a good growth mindset because as I mentioned a while ago, skills can be learned but attitude, the character, that's the thread. Totally different. Second is, there's a lot of path that you can take to be a data engineer. For example, in my case, my career is more on software development first and then I went through DevOps, infrastructure, scalability. Those kind of things, you can make use of your foundation also to become a data engineer. But it's also hard. As I mentioned, it's not hard. For example, if you're going to be a fresh grad, you will be working with actual data right away. I actually hired someone from UP last year who is very good in data science as a data engineer because the work ethic is there. It all comes down to, learn how to break things, learn from it, apply it as much as you can, and continue growing. There's a lot of YouTube channels as well that have data engineering, what do you call that, maps? Skills map? That you can check in the internet. It's an interesting time to be in. A lot of things you can learn if you want to. I'll build on what both of the panelists have said. There's a huge amount of collateral out on the web that you can consume, probably more than you could ever consume in a lifetime. I think it's about being ready, ready, focused. I think the focus that you need to bring is around what is my body of work. There's a lot of people that will say, hey, I've gone and done a course, I've gone and done a cert, I've gone and done this, but where's the evidence that you've applied that? My advice would be build a portfolio, build a body of work, and you can do that in the absence of being in the work environment. One of the best ways is cacles. These data science and data engineering competitions. Find like-minded individuals, come together and go and solve tough problems using open data sets together, and then do it in the team sport-like manner that these companies require. The other thing is around how you work as a team player. There's a lot of individuals that are really, really good at football. You know, you want a team player, you want someone that's going to be fantastic at agricultural, but is able to work in a team to solve tough problems. So I'd say build a portfolio of work, demonstrate that you can do that in a team-like manner, demonstrate that you can solve tough data and AI problems, leverage all of the material that's out there. Databricks has a phenomenal amount of open, free learning. If you've not seen it, just go to our learning and enablement site. There's a huge amount there. We're running training pretty much any day of the given week, so check it out. And then specifically for the University of the Philippines, and I'd say this to the university, but I'd say this to all of our corporate customers and prospects, we want to know who you're working with from an academic faculty relationship perspective. That's important to us. We have an alliance program around universities. So if there's universities, academic relationships, faculty members that you have, let us know, because we want to build and invest in the talent of the future. So we do have a university alliance program. We provide resources, labs, learning material to those universities to go and run and train people on Databricks. So that's our kind of commitment back to the universities and the talent of the future. Cool. Lovely question. Love that. That's awesome. Thank you.