the people. And that's where I'm gonna end. Thank you so much. Thank you, Sir Olgado, for that wonderful talk. We will now proceed with the question and answer portion. Fellows, you may send your questions through the following link. https://bit.lyupdsoc.com Q&A For our first question, Sir. Are open source information adherent to the practices of data ethics? The question is, so let me premise this first by there is no clear yes or no answers to ethical questions, right? By default, that's just how ethics, that's how a rich and critical ethical exploration is going to be. So it always will be the answer will always be contingent, specific, in particular to the case at hand. So that would be the like a flag and a premise before I actually answer that question. My answer then would be it depends on where you're getting the data from, right? It depends on who the data represents and who's implicated in the data. So not every, but if you, for example, don't have consent from people to actually have their data be available openly, then by default, it won't follow. It would be in a very gray ethical area, if not an extremely problematic ethical space, because if you don't have consent, but consent is also what do you call this? An ongoing mechanism, right? So you might have consent to collect their data, but they actually have consent to use their data. And specifically, do you have consent to use the data the way you're thinking of using them now and in the future? Do you have consent to actually to have these data available to the public? To what extent is the notion of public here is as well? That would be my answer to that question. Thank you, sir. For our next question, how different is online data ethics from offline data ethics? I wish you could give you can all give me more specific context for your questions, but if let's go back to the action, right? So we believe that the action, one of the action asserts that data is always processed through various social technical mechanisms and processes. So by default, if you're online and offline, data goes through different mechanisms and processes, different infrastructure, then its implication towards data ethics will also likely be different as well. Or rather, your approaches to and your ethical approaches to it would vary. Or rather, let me qualify that may vary. Because you now you then have to start thinking about notions of like privacy and security on top of the other thing that I just mentioned, which is consent. Here's a more specific question for you, sir. What are ethical issues on web scrapping and how can we prevent the commit such? So this is this is an interesting case study, right? So my question will always be one. Why are you scraping the web for data? Second, where are you scraping it from? Third, which is what I said earlier. What's the data you're scraping and who is implicated in these data? And for it again, is there actual consent for you to actually scrape this data and not only scrape this data, but use the data for the purposes that you scrape it for? And why you scraped it in the first place? So those would be the starting point of your ethical inquiry now. For example, in the human rights space, right? We do data scraping online on particular social media precisely because a lot of people will post videos or tweets, for example, for human rights violation. So let's say for example in Filcoa, McDonald's, Filcoa, there are security forces, police, right? And then people will take photos of it, videos of it, post it online, right? So some human rights defenders will actually scrape that so that they will have because they believe that those videos will then be can be used as evidence for prosecution. So then we go back to the set of questions we just had before, right? Was there consent from the person who posted it, but not only the person who posted it, but also the people implicated in the video, right? Who's actually in the video, right? But and then what is the purpose of the scraping? So again, then you start figuring out your values and seeing risks and harms and then make decisions based on those ethical exercises. I can see why and this is why data ethics is always an interesting thing, specifically when you talk to data scientists who primarily have been trained, we have been trained to operate within binaries and categorizations, right? Like we wanted as freaking black and white as possible. But data ethics doesn't operate that way. And so we have to think about things slightly, not completely differently. So if I am to answer my case study that I just shared with you, I would say, yes, my scraping of social media accounts for the purpose that I just stated is justifiable because violation of human rights of someone possibly dying or forcibly disappeared likely would, what do you call this, be of utmost importance than the uncertainty of consent of materials published publicly online. That would be that would be my argument. But Kayo, it depends, what are you scraping for? I don't know exactly like, oh, sir, I'm just scraping because I would like to come up with a digital slum book of my crush. So I'm like I'm clearly, clearly scraping all like social media accounts of this particular person. Well, then that is. Then I'll be interested in how you're going to defend your ethical stance, if you believe that that is an ethical stance. Hello, sir. I think someone's raising their hand. Maybe they have a question. Lance, you can unmute. Hi, sir. Good morning. Thanks for the talk. Actually, I have a question that is somewhat, is it possible to, with the current available data from social media, is it possible to conduct research on how to foresee on how this data could be exploited? While there are many bad possibilities, I think this is a very necessary research to mitigate the possible exploitations that could be done in the future. Because there are so many data available. So since there are more data, therefore more possibilities, there are more like we can start with the bad guys. So is it possible to conduct such research? So there are a number of research initiatives that has done that already. Like for example, what's his name, Sean. Sean did research, scraped social media, got social media data as a mechanism to actually be able to predict where, what do you call this, public health crisis will show up. Specifically in terms of like COVID, HIV, AIDS, like just through sheer Twitter posts and look at that accordingly. Of course, there's like ethical approaches that they did that. They did through that, right? Like anonymizing data, for example, making sure that the data, the not anonymized data is not publicly available online. Certain things that when will you actually dispose of the data or should you dispose the data after and so on and so forth. Making provisions, for example, that they're not going to be, they're not going to scrape like private tweets and only actually scrape public tweets. So what I'm trying to say is your goal, what you're trying to accomplish, good as it is, you should do it, but also be mindful of how then you go about actually pursuing it. Right? How do you collect the data? How do you manage the data? How do you keep the data? How do you analyze the data? The bigger question for me there, or rather the important aspect there, Lance, is, for example, if you're trying to scrape all of these data or gather all of these data to be able to say prevent violence, for example, you have to make sure because you at the very forefront committed to that, that you'll actually be able to deliver. Or if you're not, then you have to be responsible and say, hey, I got it. It didn't work out. And this is why it didn't work out. This is what what I did with the data there after. Right. So it does boil down to the fact that all researchers have to be very careful about the data that they're gathering and to prioritize the anonymity of the users. Right. And it goes back to what I just mentioned earlier. So what do you refuse to do and what you commit to do? So that's one of the ethical approaches. So in every step of your data project, you have to start thinking about, OK, what am I not going to do and what am I committing to do? So that's one way of going about it. Or the other way is if you're going to follow the situated data science or user centered design, what you're going to do is actually not start with the data, but start with the issue at hand. Right. So, for example, if you're trying to figure out like violence against women, then by default, you have to do all your research against violence against women. You have to talk to social workers who have been at the forefront of this work. You have to talk to if they allow you to talk to them, to survivors and family of survivors and victims and say, what do you need? Right. So how can we help actually prevent this? Right. Because at the same time, data work takes time and resources. So let's put it in a different way. If you're going to do a huge data project and you're actually siphoning money and resources to be able to do your data project, but actually the community that you purport to help could benefit from that money instead, that in itself is also an ethical question and ethical quandary. Yeah. But that's a good case study. Thank you. Salamat. So I did not get the briefing. Bakit tayo naging English? Sorry. Sorry. It's fine. We can still continue being English. Sorry po. Since because of time constraints, we will now limit to our last two questions. Sir, can I ask if since we have a lot of questions being sent to us, can we email you the questions? Sure. Feel free to email me the question. I probably won't be able to respond to them one by one. So what I will likely do is I will record a video of me responding to the questions because I think it's easier and I can collapse some of the questions. And then so I'll answer via video. So this is similar to what I do when I teach OpenU. And then I'll just send it to the organizers. And then feel free to share it to those who've asked questions. OK, for our last two questions, do you have any book or research paper recommendations that tackle data ethics? Yeah, so the main one that I recommend, which I pointed out earlier, is the Raw Data is an Oxymoron book. So it's from MIT Press back in 2013. It's an anthology of of essays. So it's not specifically on data ethics per se, but it's it's foundational text to start thinking about data ethics and critical data studies. And so, by the way, the notion of raw data is an oxymoron or there is no such thing as raw data is from my one of my dissertation advisors, Jeff Bowker, who says that raw data is an oxymoron. They're all cooked and they should be cooked properly, which is true. So I think that would be the first one. And then and also in the slide. Lushana Floridi talks about what is data ethics. So this is a more pointed, like short article that one can actually jump into. Slightly more philosophical than one would one would want, but something there. And then lastly, this is also actually very interesting because I just read an article, research article that says that Gen Zs are actually using TikTok as a search engine as opposed to Google. Fascinating. And so I actually went on TikTok a few hours ago and typed in data ethics. And there's a bunch of academics and data ethicists there. Fiesler, for example, is like a famous data ethics, tech ethics person, academic. And she she creates like interesting videos around data ethics and some some interesting case studies. So if you don't want to read, just funny, you can watch some TikTok videos about data ethics in between whatever algorithm, which is funny because, you know, if you've seen my TikTok algorithm now, data ethics is well, I have like I have academic TikTok in between random things like dogs and. Things I should not say out loud. Anyways, may tanong ka? I think we are waiting for two more questions. For our final question, do you have any final message or tips for many of us who are just starting data science? Honestly. Can I have a very quick chat? Can can people just drop or type in what their majors are at this point? I just want to see. OK. OK, great. So you're all except for one person, you're all in the sciences, sciences. I guess my advice would be definitely given your educational background, you're all going to learn your stat advanced math. I'm pretty sure in some of these courses you'll pick up a computing language or two. I'm biased towards R. And I think that's all fair and good. Right. What I would highly, highly, highly recommend, though, and not just from an ethical perspective, but also even in a strategic career perspective, it's you it would be beneficial for you to actually explore specific domains that you would want to develop and be a data science, a data scientist with or for, for example, do you see yourself as a data scientist trying to solve social ills such as poverty or inequality or so on and so forth? If that is your frame of mind, then you should be taking courses and classes. Outside of your majors that will actually give you notions of what poverty is or public administration or sociology or anthropology, right? Because that will inform your work as a data scientist. The same goes with or working with people, right? Like, OK, be an intern, work, be an intern at the government or be an intern for a think tank or a nonprofit. Right. And really develop those skill sets. If you then you're a student, actually, sorry, no, I just want to be a data scientist for Google. Just hey, that's your jam. That's your jam. But you still have to learn specific things and what the tools are for. Right. So, for example, if if if, say, Netflix, as I mentioned earlier, you want to work on developing or improving recommender systems that is like specifically Filipino, because the recommender systems doesn't understand the Filipino base. Right. So then you have to be responsible. What is the Filipino base? Right. Then you have to, again, look at sociology, anthropology, media studies. So that will definitely give you a leg up in terms of of being a data scientist. You are a domain specific data scientist. So, no, I'm I'm I do geospatial mapping and I'm I'm I'm focusing on what I call this. I'm focusing on being a data scientist specific to a number of these things. So that's great. But you might also be interested in looking at critical geography on how maps and spaces are created and perpetuates inequalities. Right. So a number of these things can definitely be explored and should be explored, because I would also argue, like, for example, you can pick up a programming language anytime. At the same time, some technologies become obsolete. So there is a likelihood that some of the tech specific skills that you now know will be obsolete in 10, 15, 20 years. You have to pick up a new set of technologies outside of academia. But this is the very this three, four years, five years that you have in UP is one of the rare moments, very rare moments that you will actually have the opportunity to disciplinarily open yourself up. After that, it's going to be very, very difficult. Or you can get a master's degree and apply your data science background. So I know, for example, someone who has a data science background, computer science background, working in the human rights space or has become a doctor. Right. And then now is doing medical informatics. So those are things that you can also explore. Shout out to the physicists, not to be biased, but some most of my favorite data scientists are physicists. I don't know why, but I think it's because some physicists see this as my assumption and no shade on the other disciplines. But certain branches of physicists has like a worldview that is so broad, like literally broad in terms of space, that there's like an existential and fundamental perspective that they see in how the world operates. And so I that's just me. I just I I enjoy working with with physicists, physicists based data scientists. But this doesn't stop any of you, whether you're engineering or biology. Actually, if you're in biology and you want to go into data science, then you know the possibility, you know, the harms of poorly designed research or like the ethics of testing. And so from from from that perspective, then you have you will. Anyways, what I'm trying to say is all of your disciplines would give you not only skill sets, but epistemic worldviews that will define who you are as a data scientist beyond the language or the technical skills or the technologies that you subscribe to. And if it's not enough, if you're hungry, go take other courses, go meet other people to open yourself up. Yeah, I saw the PhD for data science. They don't have a standalone data ethics class, if I'm not mistaken, which is an interesting choice. But I think they're trying to maybe what their plans are is to embed data ethics across all of their. Courses. Hopefully, that is the case. There you go, so Lauren points out there's a undergrad data ethics class under FILO 198. Of course, by default, I would say, you know, also take LIS subjects. We have information in society. So we talk about the intersection of technology and information and by extension data. So that's LIS 10. Feel free to take that as well. I think there's also an advanced LIS class on information ethics. Then you can jump towards information ethics to data ethics as well. A number of courses have law and ethics classes, like I think there's media law and ethics. So taking those courses, if you want to be domain specific, helps you as well. Hopefully, those are all practical advice that you all can take. And also R. I love R. Should all learn R.